These are excepts from the Neurosky document, "Mindset Communications Protocol",
included in the MDT.

ASIC_EEG_POWER

This Data Value represents the current magnitude of 8 commonly-recognized types 
of EEG (brainwaves). This Data Value is output as a series of eight 3-byte 
unsigned integers in little-endian format.  The eight EEG powers are output in 
the following order: 

  delta (0.5 - 2.75Hz)
  theta (3.5 - 6.75Hz)
  low-alpha (7.5 - 9.25Hz)
  high-alpha (10 - 11.75Hz)
  low-beta (13 - 16.75Hz)
  high-beta (18 - 29.75Hz)
  low-gamma (31 - 39.75Hz)
  mid-gamma (41 - 49.75Hz)

These values have no units and therefore are only meaningful compared to each 
other and to themselves, to consider relative quantity and temporal 
fluctuations.

This is typically output once a second.


eSENSE

Relative eSense scale of 1 to 100.

On this scale, a value between 40 to 60 at any given moment in time is 
considered "neutral", and is similar in notion to "baselines" that are 
established in conventional EEG measurement techniques (though the method for 
determining a ThinkGear baseline is proprietary and may differ from conventional
EEG). 

A value from 60 to 80 is considered "slightly elevated", and may be interpreted 
as levels being possibly higher than normal (levels of Attention or Meditation 
that maybe higher than normal for a given person). 

Values from 80 to 100 are considered "elevated", meaning they are strongly 
indicative of heightened levels of that eSense.

Similarly, on the other end of the scale, a value between 20 to 40 indicates 
"reduced" levels of the eSense, while a value between 1 to 20 indicates 
"strongly lowered" levels of the eSense. These levels may indicate states of 
distraction, agitation, or abnormality, according to the opposite of each 
eSense.

An eSense meter value of 0 is a special value indicating the ThinkGear is 
unable to calculate an eSense level with a reasonable amount of reliability. 
This may be (and usually is) due to excessive noise as described in the 
POOR_SIGNAL Quality section above.

The reason for the somewhat wide ranges for each interpretation is that some 
parts of the eSense algorithm are dynamically learning, and at times employ 
some "slow-adaptive" algorithms to adjust to natural fluctuations and trends 
of each user, accounting for and compensating for the fact that EEG in the 
human brain is subject to normal ranges of variance and fluctuation. This is 
part of the reason why ThinkGear sensors are able to operate on a wide range of 
individuals under an extremely wide range of personal and environmental 
conditions while still giving good accuracy and reliability.

Developers are encouraged to further interpret and adapt these guideline ranges
to be fine-tuned for their application (as one example, an application could 
disregard values below 60 and only react to values between 60-100, interpreting
them as the onset of heightened attention levels).

These are output once a second.


POOR_SIGNAL

This unsigned one-byte integer value describes how poor the signal measured by 
the ThinkGear is. It ranges in value from 0 to 200. Any non-zero value 
indicates that some sort of noise contamination is detected. The higher the 
number, the more noise is detected. A value of 200 has a special meaning,
specifically that the ThinkGear contacts are not touching the user's skin.

This value is typically output every second, and indicates the poorness of the 
most recent measurements.

Poor signal may be caused by a number of different things. In order of severity,
they are:
 * Sensor, ground, or reference contacts not being on a person's head 
   (i.e. when nobody is wearing the ThinkGear).
 * Poor contact of the sensor, ground, or reference contacts to a person's skin
   (i.e. hair in the way, or headset which does not properly fit a person's 
    head, or headset not properly placed on the head).
 * Excessive motion of the wearer (i.e. moving head or body excessively, 
   jostling the headset).
 * Excessive environmental electrostatic noise (some environments have strong 
   electric signals or static electricity buildup in the person wearing the 
   sensor).
 * Excessive non-EEG biometric noise (i.e. EMG, EKG/ECG, EOG, etc)

A certain amount of noise is unavoidable in normal usage of ThinkGear, and both
 NeuroSky's filtering technology and eSense algorithm have been designed to 
detect, correct, compensate for, account for, and tolerate many types of 
non-EEG noise. Most typical users who are only interested in using the eSense 
values, such as Attention and Meditation, do not need to worry too much about 
the POOR_SIGNAL Quality value, except to note that the Attention and Meditation
values will not be updated while POOR_SIGNAL is detected. The POOR_SIGNAL 
Quality value is more useful to some applications which need to be more 
sensitive to noise (such as some medical or research applications), or 
applications which need to know right away when there is even minor noise 
detected.

It is typically output once a second.


RAW Wave Value

This Data Value consists of two bytes, and represents a single raw wave sample. 

Its value is a signed 16-bit integer that ranges from -32768 to 32767.

Each ThinkGear model reports its raw wave information in only certain areas of 
the full -32768 to 32767 range. For example, MindSet reports raw waves that 
fall between approximately -2048 to 2047.

By default, this is outputed 512 times a second, or approximately once every 
2ms.
